---
layout: project
title: "A Focused Assessment of the International Development Associations’s Private Sector Window"
date: 9 Jan 2024
caption:
description: >
featured: false
image:
  path: /portfolio/private_sector_window.png
links:
  - title: Link to original
    url: https://doi.org/10.1596/IEG186062
---

The private sector is essential for creating jobs and prosperity in poor
countries, but developing it is challenging, especially in fragile and
conflict-affected situations (FCS). The IDA Private Sector Window (PSW) is a
blended finance facility that enables the International Finance Corporation (
IFC), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and third-party
private sector investors to conduct high-risk transactions in International
Development Association (IDA) countries and FCS countries. This evaluation aims
to assess the usage, market development potential, and enabling factors of the
PSW. The evaluation assesses how the usage of the PSW has changed from its
inception in 2017 to 2023 and explores its potential market development effects
and its enabling factors, namely concessionality (for IFC and MIGA) and
additionality (for IFC). Concessionality is the level of subsidy needed for IFC
and MIGA to offer transactions in PSW-eligible countries at market prices.
Additionality is the unique support IFC brings to private investments (on a
project basis) that is not offered by commercial sources of finance. It
comprises financial and nonfinancial additionality. This evaluation assesses the
PSW across three IDA cycles: IDA18, which covers FY18–20; IDA19, which covers
FY21–22; and IDA20, which covers FY23–25. It updates the 2021 IEG early-stage
assessment of the PSW (FY18–20) and complements the IDA20 PSW Mid-Term Review,
which was prepared jointly by IDA, IFC, and MIGA.

World Bank. 2024. “A Focused Assessment of the International Development
Associations’s Private Sector Window: An Update to the Independent Evaluation
Group’s 2021 Early-Stage Assessment.” Independent Evaluation Group. Washington,
DC: World Bank. https://doi.org/10.1596/IEG186062.