---
layout: welcome
title: Aarre Laakso
cover: true
---

I do various kinds of editing. What they have in common is an effort to ensure
that the authors' messages come across clearly in the final product.

In **developmental editing**, I help a team write a document that clearly
conveys key messages, has a compelling storyline, flows smoothly from point to
point, is consistent, and backs its claims with cogent arguments and evidence.
The process is usually iterative and often begins with brainstorming about key
messages and a storyline, then proceeds through an annotated outline, and
results in a first draft that is often quickly written and quite good.
Developmental editing also often involves writing a clear executive summary that
captures the essential messages of the document in an abbreviated form.

**Structural editing** is usually not necessary if the process begins with
developmental editing. It has the same purpose: to arrive at a document that
clearly conveys key messages, has a compelling storyline, flows, is consistent,
and backs its claims with cogent arguments and evidence. However, structural
editing begins after the document has been drafted and involves restructuring
the existing draft rather than structuring a new one. It also often involves
rewriting an existing executive summary.

**Line editing** involves paying special attention to the tone and structure of
sentences and paragraphs. At this stage, I am looking not so much for "errors"
of the sort that will be caught in copyediting but for opportunities to sharpen
the language in sentences and shape paragraphs so that they convey key messages,
tell a story, make valid arguments, maintain consistency, and present compelling
evidence in support of findings. This includes ensuring clear, straightforward
language and reducing wordiness without losing essential content. It also
involves maintaining a professional and objective tone appropriate for the
audience.

**Copyediting** involves correcting grammar, punctuation, and style. In this
context, style means following a set of conventions about language and
formatting as provided in the *Chicago Manual of Style* or a corporate style
guide. These would include rules for formatting citations and references, for
captioning figures and tables, and for handling abbreviations, among other
things.

The purpose of **proofreading** is to ensure that the final document is as
error-free as possible. I compare the final draft of the document (typically in
Microsoft Word) with the final proofs from a design or typesetting firm
(typically in a PDF created by InDesign). You would be surprised how many errors
can get introduced (or revealed) in the design and typesetting process: I
typically find hundreds of errors in a 100-page document.

<!--projects-->